---
layout: activity
parent: Alphabetically
grand_parent: Activities
---
# The Change Curve
Almost everyone is familiar with the feeling of change. Whether it's a new job, a new relationship, or a new house, change can be both exciting and scary. And, as with most things in life, change seldom happens overnight. More often, it happens in stages. The Change Curve is a visual tool that can be used to understand the process of change. It can help you to see where you are in the process, and how much further you have to go. The Change Curve has four stages: 1. The first stage is "unconscious incompetence." This is when we don't know what we don't know. We're not aware of the need to change, and we're not skilled at the new behavior. 2. The second stage is "conscious incompetence." This is when we become aware of the need to change, but we're still not skilled at the new behavior. 3. The third stage is "conscious competence." This is when we're aware of the need to change and we're starting to become skilled at the new behavior. 4. The fourth and final stage is "unconscious competence." This is when the new behavior has become so ingrained that we don't have to think about it anymore. It's just second nature. The Change Curve can be a useful tool for individuals, teams, and organizations. It can help you to understand where you are in the process of change, and how much further you have to go. It can also help you to set realistic expectations, and to understand that change takes time.