---
layout: activity
parent: Alphabetically
grand_parent: Activities
---
# The Discovery Cycle (ORCA)
A The Discovery Cycle (ORCA) is a tool that can be used to help people learn about and explore their surroundings. It can be used to help people find new things, or to learn more about something that they already know. To make a The Discovery Cycle (ORCA), you will need: A piece of paper A pencil A compass A ruler Once you have these materials, you can begin. First, use the compass to draw a circle on the paper. Next, use the ruler to divide the circle into four equal parts. Label each part as follows: Orientation Review Construction Assessment Now, you can use the The Discovery Cycle (ORCA) to help you learn about and explore your surroundings. To do this, simply start in the Orientation phase. In this phase, you will learn about your surroundings and try to orient yourself in relation to them. Once you have done this, you can move on to the Review phase. In the Review phase, you will take a closer look at what you have learned in the Orientation phase. You will ask questions and try to understand the information in more depth. After this, you can move on to the Construction phase. In the Construction phase, you will use what you have learned to construct something new. This could be a physical object, or it could be a new understanding of your surroundings. Finally, you will move on to the Assessment phase. In the Assessment phase, you will reflect on what you have learned and determine whether or not it is useful. You will also decide whether or not you want to continue learning more about this topic. The Discovery Cycle (ORCA) is a useful tool because it can help you to learn about your surroundings in a structured and effective way. By using this tool, you can explore your surroundings and find new things, or learn more about something that you already know.